First technique we're going to learn about is Hashing.
We introduce hashes early in term one.
But in this lesson, we'll learn to use hashing to preserve privacy.
A Hash Function is a mathematical calculation that
when applied to data always computes an answer has the same length.
Hash functions have two parts.
The data we put into the function that's called the Preimage,
and the result of the calculation is called the Hash Value.
We can think of the hash as a fingerprint of the preimage data,
and this makes hashes particularly useful.
Let's look at a simple hash function.
Here's our simple hash function,
h of x equals x mod 10.
For any value x, we just take the last digit.
That last digit is the hash or fingerprint of our data.
So, in this case it's h of 14,
that's four and h of 26 is six.
But just like a physical fingerprint,
we can compare that hash value to its preimage and pretty quickly verify that they match.
But it will be hard to figure out what that preimage
was just by looking at the hash value alone.
Our simple hash function has a problem though.
It'd be really easy to find lots of
different preimage values that all have the same hash.
So, our fingerprint hash isn't really
authoritative about which preimage was used to create it.
To solve this problem, we use a Cryptographic Hash.
Cryptographic hash functions work just like our simple hash function,
but the calculation is performed using a function based on cryptography.
This means that given a particular hash value it's
extremely difficult to find which preimage was used to calculate it.
But it's still easy to check that a cryptographic hash value is correct.
It's also hard to find two preimages that produce the same hash.
That's a super important feature as we'll see in the next example.
So, let's use a cryptographic hash to solve our privacy problem.
In this example, Dr. Alice would like to send some medical records to her patient Bob.
The trouble is, Dr. Alice doesn't want to put them on the blockchain
and Bob doesn't know whether or not he could trust the documents he gets are legitimate.
The good news is, they can use hashing to securely pass
documents between one another and verify their accuracy.
To start, Alice sends Bob the medical records.
This solves Alice's problem because she just avoid using the blockchain though.
The same can't be said for Bob though.
He has no way to verify that his documents are legitimate.
To be able to verify this,
Alice will need to use the blockchain along with some hash values.
Alice needs to generate a hash for the document that she was sending to Bob,
and commit this hash to the block chain.
From there, Bob can first check that
the hash value committed was indeed committed by Alice.
This confirms her identity,
but not necessarily the contents of the document itself.
To verify its accuracy,
Bob will also need to hash the document he received.
After generating his hash,
he can compare that value to the value Alice stored on the blockchain.
If these hash values are the same,
it means that the document was received exactly as it was sent.
If they are different, Bob will know there's something about the document was changed.
As you can see, this example allowed Alice
to avoid storing Bob's medical records on the blockchain.
It used the functionality of blockchain and hash
values to allow Alice to send her document privately.
While allowing Bob to verify the accuracy of the document he received.